modules/ROOT/pages/cloud.adoc, before:

= Couchbase Cloud Support
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
Connecting to Couchbase Cloud is very similar to connecting to any Couchbase cluster over an encrypted connection. This section explains how.

== Certificate Download

Once you have created a Cluster in Couchbase Cloud, navigate to the `Connect` tab and download the security certificate.

image::cloud-ui.png[Cloud UI]

== Spark Configuration

Now that you downloaded the certificate to a file, through the Spark configuration properties we can instruct the SDK to enable the encrypted connection and point it to the correct file:

[source,scala]
----
val spark = SparkSession
  .builder()
  .appName("CouchbaseCloudSample") // your app name
  .master("local[*]") // your local or remote master node
  .config("spark.couchbase.connectionString", "your-endpoint.cloud.couchbase.com")
  .config("spark.couchbase.username", "Administrator")
  .config("spark.couchbase.password", "password")
  .config("spark.couchbase.implicitBucket", "yourbucketname")

  // Security config goes down here
  .config("spark.couchbase.security.enableTls", "true")
  .config("spark.couchbase.security.trustCertificate", "/path/to/cert.pem")

  .getOrCreate()
----

In a clustered spark environment, it is vital that the certificate is present on all of the spark worker nodes.

See the configuration page on how to use the `spark.ssl` keystore instead of a certificate path.

After everything is configured, you can use all the APIs like you would against a regular Couchbase Server installation.

Commit message:

Update docs pre 3.2.1 release
Change-Id: I25f0f14dde6629680ba93e90b8e56f8788343acc
Reviewed-on: https://review.couchbase.org/c/couchbase-spark-connector/+/175471
Tested-by: Michael Nitschinger <michael.nitschinger@couchbase.com>
Reviewed-by: Michael Nitschinger <michael.nitschinger@couchbase.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/cloud.adoc, after:

= Couchbase Cloud Support
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
Connecting to Couchbase Cloud is very similar to connecting to any Couchbase cluster over an encrypted connection. This section explains how.

NOTE: Since connector version 3.2.1, downloading the certificate is no longer needed since it comes bundled with the underlying SDK. As a result, the "Certificate Download" step can be skipped and only TLS needs to be enabled in the Spark configuration (no `trustCertificate` needs to be provided).

== Certificate Download

Once you have created a Cluster in Couchbase Cloud, navigate to the `Connect` tab and download the security certificate.

image::cloud-ui.png[Cloud UI]

== Spark Configuration

Now that you downloaded the certificate to a file, through the Spark configuration properties we can instruct the SDK to enable the encrypted connection and point it to the correct file:

[source,scala]
----
val spark = SparkSession
  .builder()
  .appName("CouchbaseCloudSample") // your app name
  .master("local[*]") // your local or remote master node
  .config("spark.couchbase.connectionString", "your-endpoint.cloud.couchbase.com")
  .config("spark.couchbase.username", "Administrator")
  .config("spark.couchbase.password", "password")
  .config("spark.couchbase.implicitBucket", "yourbucketname")

  // Security config goes down here
  .config("spark.couchbase.security.enableTls", "true")
  .config("spark.couchbase.security.trustCertificate", "/path/to/cert.pem")

  .getOrCreate()
----

In a clustered spark environment, it is vital that the certificate is present on all of the spark worker nodes.

See the configuration page on how to use the `spark.ssl` keystore instead of a certificate path.

After everything is configured, you can use all the APIs like you would against a regular Couchbase Server installation.
