modules/ROOT/pages/configuration.adoc, before:

= Configuration
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
Information about the different configuration properties the Spark connector either expects or allows to set.

All couchbase-specific properties start with the `spark.couchbase` prefix. They can all be configured on the `SparkSession` like the following:

[source,scala]
----
val spark = SparkSession
  .builder()
  .config("PROPERTY-KEY", "PROPERTY-VALUE")
  .getOrCreate()
----

== Required Properties

Three properties are required to get the connector up and running:

.Required Config Properties
|===
| Property | Description

| spark.couchbase.connectionString
| The connection string / hostnames of the cluster

| spark.couchbase.username
| The name of your RBAC user

| spark.couchbase.password
| The password of your RBAC user

|===

For example:

[source,scala]
----
val spark = SparkSession
  .builder()
  .appName("Migration")
  .config("spark.couchbase.connectionString", "127.0.0.1")
  .config("spark.couchbase.username", "user")
  .config("spark.couchbase.password", "pass")
  .getOrCreate()
----

== Optional Properties

There are other properties which can be provided that alter the workflow, for example by providing implicit bucket, scope or collection names.

.Optional Config Properties
|===
| Property | Description

| spark.couchbase.implicitBucket
| Used as a bucket, if no explicit name provided on the operation.

| spark.couchbase.implicitScope
| Used as a scope, if no explicit name provided on the operation.

| spark.couchbase.implicitCollection
| Used as a collection, if no explicit name provided on the operation.

| spark.couchbase.waitUntilReadyTimeout
| The time until the SDK waits to make sure all connections are properly established (1 minute default).

|===

The implicit values are always used if no explicit `Keyspace` or option override is provided on an operation.

== Dynamic Configuration Properties

In addition to configuring the connector, it is also possible to configure the underlying SDK properties. Usually the SDK provides a rich builder to do so, but since spark only allows to provide string properties the approach is a bit less flexible.

The strategy is similar to configuring the SDK through system properties or connection string values. Properties are taken as a string value and then decoded into the target format.

For example to configure the KeyValue timeout, the following property can be used:

- Key: `"spark.couchbase.timeout.kvTimeout"`
- Value: `"10s"`

Or to set the certificate path:

- Key: `security.trustCertificate`
- Value: `mycert.pem`

Please refer to the SDK documentation for the possible keys or values.

== TLS Connections

TLS connections can be confiugred through SDK properties shown above, but there is an alternative way that aligns with configuring TLS in spark itself. The following properties are recognized and if enabled used to connect to a Couchbase cluster encrypted:

.TLS Config Properties
|===
| Property | Description

| spark.ssl.enabled
| if TLS/SSL should be enabled

| spark.ssl.keyStore
| the path to the jvm keystore

| spark.ssl.keyStorePassword
| the password of the jvm keystore

|===

Note that the prefix for these properties is not `spark.couchbase` but `spark.ssl`, since they are spark-generic properties.

Commit message:

SPARKC-159: Make TLS config more flexible
Allow:

 - couchbases:// in the connection string to enable tls
 - No mandatory trust manager when enabling TLS on the properties, simplifies capella setup
 - spark.ssl.insecure support which uses the insecure trust manager (disabled by default but useful for testing)

Change-Id: Ia0122cbde5690c385d217d6175c563062f4598d9
Reviewed-on: https://review.couchbase.org/c/couchbase-spark-connector/+/176930
Tested-by: Michael Nitschinger <michael.nitschinger@couchbase.com>
Reviewed-by: Michael Nitschinger <michael.nitschinger@couchbase.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/configuration.adoc, after:

= Configuration
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
Information about the different configuration properties the Spark connector either expects or allows to set.

All couchbase-specific properties start with the `spark.couchbase` prefix. They can all be configured on the `SparkSession` like the following:

[source,scala]
----
val spark = SparkSession
  .builder()
  .config("PROPERTY-KEY", "PROPERTY-VALUE")
  .getOrCreate()
----

== Required Properties

Three properties are required to get the connector up and running:

.Required Config Properties
|===
| Property | Description

| spark.couchbase.connectionString
| The connection string / hostnames of the cluster

| spark.couchbase.username
| The name of your RBAC user

| spark.couchbase.password
| The password of your RBAC user

|===

For example:

[source,scala]
----
val spark = SparkSession
  .builder()
  .appName("Migration")
  .config("spark.couchbase.connectionString", "127.0.0.1")
  .config("spark.couchbase.username", "user")
  .config("spark.couchbase.password", "pass")
  .getOrCreate()
----

== Optional Properties

There are other properties which can be provided that alter the workflow, for example by providing implicit bucket, scope or collection names.

.Optional Config Properties
|===
| Property | Description

| spark.couchbase.implicitBucket
| Used as a bucket, if no explicit name provided on the operation.

| spark.couchbase.implicitScope
| Used as a scope, if no explicit name provided on the operation.

| spark.couchbase.implicitCollection
| Used as a collection, if no explicit name provided on the operation.

| spark.couchbase.waitUntilReadyTimeout
| The time until the SDK waits to make sure all connections are properly established (1 minute default).

|===

The implicit values are always used if no explicit `Keyspace` or option override is provided on an operation.

== Dynamic Configuration Properties

In addition to configuring the connector, it is also possible to configure the underlying SDK properties. Usually the SDK provides a rich builder to do so, but since spark only allows to provide string properties the approach is a bit less flexible.

The strategy is similar to configuring the SDK through system properties or connection string values. Properties are taken as a string value and then decoded into the target format.

For example to configure the KeyValue timeout, the following property can be used:

- Key: `"spark.couchbase.timeout.kvTimeout"`
- Value: `"10s"`

Or to set the certificate path:

- Key: `security.trustCertificate`
- Value: `mycert.pem`

Please refer to the SDK documentation for the possible keys or values.

== TLS Connections

TLS connections can be confiugred through SDK properties shown above, but there is an alternative way that aligns with configuring TLS in spark itself. The following properties are recognized and if enabled used to connect to a Couchbase cluster encrypted:

.TLS Config Properties
|===
| Property | Description

| spark.ssl.enabled
| if TLS/SSL should be enabled

| spark.ssl.keyStore
| the path to the jvm keystore

| spark.ssl.keyStorePassword
| the password of the jvm keystore

| spark.ssl.insecure
| Uses the InsecureTrustManager and accepts all certificates. This should only be used during development!

|===

Note that the prefix for these properties is not `spark.couchbase` but `spark.ssl`, since they are spark-generic properties.
