modules/ROOT/pages/download-links.adoc, before:

== Download and API Reference

All production-ready Couchbase Spark connector artifacts are downloadable through Maven Central.
Prerelease versions are available through our Couchbase Maven repository for easy consumption.
Downloads via alternative methods such as Spark Packages are also available.

The connector is currently compiled against both the Scala 2.10 and 2.11 targets to comply with Spark.
Either of those artifacts can be used in Java applications.
Here are the coordinates for both artifacts:

* *GroupId:* com.couchbase.client
* *ArtifactId:* spark-connector_2.11 / spark-connector_2.10
* *Version:* 2.2.0

If you are using Scala, here is the snippet you can use:

[source]
----

libraryDependencies += "com.couchbase.client" %% "spark-connector" % "2.2.0"
----

* 2.2.0 (either of those JAR files can be used in Java applications): http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/connectors/spark/2.2.0/Couchbase-Spark-Connector_2.10-2.2.0.zip[Download (Scala 2.10 / Java)] | http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/connectors/spark/2.2.0/Couchbase-Spark-Connector_2.11-2.2.0.zip[Download (Scala 2.11 / Java)] | http://docs.couchbase.com/sdk-api/couchbase-spark-connector-2.2.0/[API Reference]

Note that those downloads contained assembled jars, which means they contain all the dependencies in one "fat jar". This means that you don't need to juggle all kinds of dependencies if you want to use the jar as part of Spark's command line access tools (like the shell) or add it to the classpath of workers.

If you want to run a prerelease version, they are available from our Couchbase Repository instead of Maven Central:

[source]
----

resolvers += "Couchbase Repository" at "http://files.couchbase.com/maven2/"
----

The connector is also distributed through http://spark-packages.org/package/couchbase/couchbase-spark-connector[Spark Packages].

Commit message:

reimport Antora docs component based on latest content from Server
- change component name to spark-connector
- change component title to Spark Connector
- shift navigation up a level and add a category
- reimport content
- change start page to index.adoc

Change-Id: Ic71a5c3d838279ef36782aa4d79b2a5f926613c9
Reviewed-on: http://review.couchbase.org/98790
Reviewed-by: David Nault <david.nault@couchbase.com>
Tested-by: David Nault <david.nault@couchbase.com>
Reviewed-on: http://review.couchbase.org/110063
Reviewed-by: Graham Pople <grahampople@gmail.com>
Tested-by: James Nocentini <james.nocentini@gmail.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/download-links.adoc, after:

= Download and API Reference
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
All production-ready Couchbase Spark connector artifacts are downloadable through Maven Central.
Prerelease versions are available through our Couchbase Maven repository for easy consumption.
Downloads via alternative methods such as Spark Packages are also available.

== Current Release 2.2.0

The connector is currently compiled against both the Scala 2.10 and 2.11 targets to comply with Spark.
Either of those artifacts can be used in Java applications.
Here are the coordinates for both artifacts:

* *GroupId:* com.couchbase.client
* *ArtifactId:* spark-connector_2.11 / spark-connector_2.10
* *Version:* 2.2.0

If you are using Scala, here is the snippet you can use:

[source,scala]
----
libraryDependencies += "com.couchbase.client" %% "spark-connector" % "2.2.0"
----

* 2.2.0 (either of those JAR files can be used in Java applications): http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/connectors/spark/2.2.0/Couchbase-Spark-Connector_2.10-2.2.0.zip[Download (Scala 2.10 / Java)^] | http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/connectors/spark/2.2.0/Couchbase-Spark-Connector_2.11-2.2.0.zip[Download (Scala 2.11 / Java)^] | http://docs.couchbase.com/sdk-api/couchbase-spark-connector-2.2.0/[API Reference^]

Note that those downloads contained assembled jars, which means they contain all the dependencies in one "fat jar".
This means that you don't need to juggle all kinds of dependencies if you want to use the jar as part of Spark's command line access tools (like the shell) or add it to the classpath of workers.

If you want to run a prerelease version, they are available from our Couchbase Repository instead of Maven Central:

[source,scala]
----
resolvers += "Couchbase Repository" at "http://files.couchbase.com/maven2/"
----

The connector is also distributed through http://spark-packages.org/package/couchbase/couchbase-spark-connector[Spark Packages^].
