modules/ROOT/pages/working-with-rdds.adoc, before:

= Working With RDDs
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
Spark operates on resilient distributed datasets (RDDs).
When you need to extract data out of Couchbase, the Couchbase Spark connector creates RDDs for you.
You can create and persist RDDs by using key-value pairs, views, or N1QL.

== Creating RDDs

To get access to the RDDs through the implicit methods that the Couchbase Spark connector provides, you need to add the following import to your code:

[source,scala]
----
import com.couchbase.spark._
----

This import adds Couchbase-specific methods to the `SparkContext`.
Each method starts with `couchbase`.

The code examples here use these additional imports:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=imports,indent=0]
----

If you want to create an RDD for specific documents stored in a bucket, you can specify the IDs directly.
The connector fetches them from the server and turns them into an RDD:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=create-rdd,indent=0]
----

Because Spark outputs lots of information, you'll find the output somewhere in the logs:

[source,json]
----
JsonDocument{id='airline_10748', cas=314538279043072, expiry=0, content={"country":"United States","iata":"ZQ","name":"Locair","callsign":"LOCAIR","icao":"LOC","id":10748,"type":"airline"}}
JsonDocument{id='airline_10123', cas=314538278125568, expiry=0, content={"country":"United States","iata":"TQ","name":"Texas Wings","callsign":"TXW","icao":"TXW","id":10123,"type":"airline"}}
----

It is critical that you specify the target document type.
Otherwise, the client does not know how to convert it.
The main reason is that Couchbase has first-class JSON support, but is also able to store any data.
You can even store serialized objects or protobuf-encoded documents, but then you'll loose the secondary indexing capabilities.

If you are unsure what to pick, stick with the `JsonDocument`.
If you need raw access to the JSON data, you can also use the `RawJsonDocument`.

You can perform a (spatial) view query to extract rows and turn them into an RDD.
Given the following view against the `travel-sample` bucket:

[source,javascript]
----
function(doc, meta) {
	if (doc.type == "airline") {
		emit(doc.name, null);
	}
}
----

Creating an RDD for the first 10 results works like this:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=view,indent=0]
----

And prints the following:

----
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_10,40-Mile Air,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_792,Access Air,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_665,AD Aviation,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_21,Aigle Azur,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_1191,Air Austral,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_139,Air Caledonie International,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_567,Air Carabes,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_149,Air Cargo Carriers,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_16881,Air Cudlua,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_882,Air Florida,null)
----

If you want to load the full content for each document, you can mix both approaches:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=view-get,indent=0]
----

Here you can see that `couchbaseGet` is not just available on the context, but also on every `RDD[String]`.
Neat, right?
The exact same approach is also available for spatial views (just use the `couchbaseSpatialView()` method instead).

You can utilize N1QL to perform efficient queries against your JSON data in a Couchbase Bucket.
The following query is very similar to the one performed before through Views, just to show how the different approaches work.

NOTE: You need to at least have a primary index created on the `travel-sample` bucket to make the following examples work.
If you haven't done that already, perform a `pass:c[CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`]` query.

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=query,indent=0]
----

And if you want to fetch the full document contents based on some criteria, here is a little more complex example:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=query-get,indent=0]
----

While this gives you the most flexibility with querying, we recommend using the higher level Spark SQL components through the DataFrame API.
See the Spark SQL section for more information.

Finally, if you're running Couchbase Analytics (available in Couchbase Server 6.0.0 and above), you can query it like this:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$Examples.scala[tag=analytics,indent=0]
----

== Persisting RDDs

Creating an RDD is only half the story.
After you've done your aggregation, filtering, and machine learning, you normally want to persist the results somewhere.
Couchbase provides the `saveToCouchbase()` method on every `RDD[Document]`.

The following example extracts all airline names through N1QL, aggregates them by country, and stores each list as a separate document.
Since RDDs are source agnostic, the same approach can be used for example to load data out of HDFS and then store the results back in Couchbase.

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=query3,indent=0]
----

This will create a document in the bucket for each country containing a list of airports.
For example the document with the ID `airports::United States` contains this:

[source,json]
----
{
  "airports": [
    "40-Mile Air",
    "ATA Airlines",
    "Access Air",
    "Air Cargo Carriers",
    "Air Florida",
    ...
    "United States Air Force",
    "Usa Sky Cargo",
    "Virgin America",
    "Vision Airlines (V2)",
    "Western Airlines",
    "World Airways",
    "XAIR USA",
    "XOJET",
    "Yellowtail"
  ]
}
----

By default, the `saveToCouchbase()` method will use the `StoreMode.UPSERT`.
There are more options available, including inserting and replacing (ignoring or failing on error).

We are also working on better support for automatic conversions from different types so that you don't have to map to a specific document type manually.

== Subdocument API

If you are running Couchbase Server 4.5 or later, you can use the "`subdoc`" API to fetch only a subset of the fields from a Document.
This allows you to reduce network overhead, and you need to move less data between operations.

The `couchbaseSubdocLookup` method is available on both the SparkContext and the RDD and accepts two/three arguments, depending on the context:

* *ids:* The list of IDs to fetch the fragments from.
* *get:* The paths of the JSON document that should be returned.
* *exists:* The paths of the JSON document that should be checked for existence.

The following example fetches only two fields from an airline and checks if the `foobar` field exists in the document:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=subdoc,indent=0]
----

This prints:

----
SubdocLookupResult(airline_10123,0,Map(name -> Texas Wings, iata -> TQ),Map(foobar -> false))
----

You can then extract the information from the `SubdocLookupResult` and use them in your RDD flow.
Note that the Couchbase SDK also supports subdocument mutations which will be added to the Spark Connector in a future release.

Commit message:

SPARKC-96: Provide more fault-tolerant batch mutations
saveToCouchbase currently tries to write documents in batches of 128
(the default for Observable parallelism).

Results from the field, and my own testing, indicate that this can be too
much and lead to timeouts.

This change adds an optional maxConcurrent parameter to limit the batch
size.  I was tempted to reduce the default batch size too, but stayed
clear of that for fear of slowing existing applications that can handle
128 fine.

Change-Id: I394e579b3a4d2aaeebb955b0199390e8626e8e7a
Reviewed-on: http://review.couchbase.org/109572
Reviewed-by: Michael Nitschinger <michael.nitschinger@couchbase.com>
Tested-by: Graham Pople <grahampople@gmail.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/working-with-rdds.adoc, after:

= Working With RDDs
:page-topic-type: concept

[abstract]
Spark operates on resilient distributed datasets (RDDs).
When you need to extract data out of Couchbase, the Couchbase Spark connector creates RDDs for you.
You can create and persist RDDs by using key-value pairs, views, or N1QL.

== Creating RDDs

To get access to the RDDs through the implicit methods that the Couchbase Spark connector provides, you need to add the following import to your code:

[source,scala]
----
import com.couchbase.spark._
----

This import adds Couchbase-specific methods to the `SparkContext`.
Each method starts with `couchbase`.

The code examples here use these additional imports:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=imports,indent=0]
----

If you want to create an RDD for specific documents stored in a bucket, you can specify the IDs directly.
The connector fetches them from the server and turns them into an RDD:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=create-rdd,indent=0]
----

Because Spark outputs lots of information, you'll find the output somewhere in the logs:

[source,json]
----
JsonDocument{id='airline_10748', cas=314538279043072, expiry=0, content={"country":"United States","iata":"ZQ","name":"Locair","callsign":"LOCAIR","icao":"LOC","id":10748,"type":"airline"}}
JsonDocument{id='airline_10123', cas=314538278125568, expiry=0, content={"country":"United States","iata":"TQ","name":"Texas Wings","callsign":"TXW","icao":"TXW","id":10123,"type":"airline"}}
----

It is critical that you specify the target document type.
Otherwise, the client does not know how to convert it.
The main reason is that Couchbase has first-class JSON support, but is also able to store any data.
You can even store serialized objects or protobuf-encoded documents, but then you'll loose the secondary indexing capabilities.

If you are unsure what to pick, stick with the `JsonDocument`.
If you need raw access to the JSON data, you can also use the `RawJsonDocument`.

You can perform a (spatial) view query to extract rows and turn them into an RDD.
Given the following view against the `travel-sample` bucket:

[source,javascript]
----
function(doc, meta) {
	if (doc.type == "airline") {
		emit(doc.name, null);
	}
}
----

Creating an RDD for the first 10 results works like this:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=view,indent=0]
----

And prints the following:

----
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_10,40-Mile Air,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_792,Access Air,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_665,AD Aviation,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_21,Aigle Azur,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_1191,Air Austral,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_139,Air Caledonie International,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_567,Air Carabes,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_149,Air Cargo Carriers,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_16881,Air Cudlua,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_882,Air Florida,null)
----

If you want to load the full content for each document, you can mix both approaches:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=view-get,indent=0]
----

Here you can see that `couchbaseGet` is not just available on the context, but also on every `RDD[String]`.
Neat, right?
The exact same approach is also available for spatial views (just use the `couchbaseSpatialView()` method instead).

You can utilize N1QL to perform efficient queries against your JSON data in a Couchbase Bucket.
The following query is very similar to the one performed before through Views, just to show how the different approaches work.

NOTE: You need to at least have a primary index created on the `travel-sample` bucket to make the following examples work.
If you haven't done that already, perform a `pass:c[CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`]` query.

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=query,indent=0]
----

And if you want to fetch the full document contents based on some criteria, here is a little more complex example:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=query-get,indent=0]
----

While this gives you the most flexibility with querying, we recommend using the higher level Spark SQL components through the DataFrame API.
See the Spark SQL section for more information.

Finally, if you're running Couchbase Analytics (available in Couchbase Server 6.0.0 and above), you can query it like this:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$Examples.scala[tag=analytics,indent=0]
----

== Persisting RDDs

Creating an RDD is only half the story.
After you've done your aggregation, filtering, and machine learning, you normally want to persist the results somewhere.
Couchbase provides the `saveToCouchbase()` method on every `RDD[Document]`.

The following example extracts all airline names through N1QL, aggregates them by country, and stores each list as a separate document.
Since RDDs are source agnostic, the same approach can be used for example to load data out of HDFS and then store the results back in Couchbase.

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=query3,indent=0]
----

This will create a document in the bucket for each country containing a list of airports.
For example the document with the ID `airports::United States` contains this:

[source,json]
----
{
  "airports": [
    "40-Mile Air",
    "ATA Airlines",
    "Access Air",
    "Air Cargo Carriers",
    "Air Florida",
    ...
    "United States Air Force",
    "Usa Sky Cargo",
    "Virgin America",
    "Vision Airlines (V2)",
    "Western Airlines",
    "World Airways",
    "XAIR USA",
    "XOJET",
    "Yellowtail"
  ]
}
----

By default, the `saveToCouchbase()` method will use the `StoreMode.UPSERT`.
There are more options available, including inserting and replacing (ignoring or failing on error).

We are also working on better support for automatic conversions from different types so that you don't have to map to a specific document type manually.

=== Parallelism
`saveToCouchbase()` will, on each active executor, write the documents to Couchbase in batches.
The default batch size is 128 - that is, 128 documents will be inserted concurrently, per executor - and this can be configured using the `maxConcurrent` parameter.

If timeouts or other issues are seen during writing, the application can try a) reducing the batch size, and b) adjusting the error retry settings.  The retry settings can be adjusted like this:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=batching,indent=0]
----

== Subdocument API

If you are running Couchbase Server 4.5 or later, you can use the "`subdoc`" API to fetch only a subset of the fields from a Document.
This allows you to reduce network overhead, and you need to move less data between operations.

The `couchbaseSubdocLookup` method is available on both the SparkContext and the RDD and accepts two/three arguments, depending on the context:

* *ids:* The list of IDs to fetch the fragments from.
* *get:* The paths of the JSON document that should be returned.
* *exists:* The paths of the JSON document that should be checked for existence.

The following example fetches only two fields from an airline and checks if the `foobar` field exists in the document:

[source,scala]
----
include::example$WorkingWithRdds.scala[tag=subdoc,indent=0]
----

This prints:

----
SubdocLookupResult(airline_10123,0,Map(name -> Texas Wings, iata -> TQ),Map(foobar -> false))
----

You can then extract the information from the `SubdocLookupResult` and use them in your RDD flow.
Note that the Couchbase SDK also supports subdocument mutations which will be added to the Spark Connector in a future release.
